Automated Meeting Room Booking System

Project Scope

The system automates the procedure of booking a meeting room in a company. Employees can search and book a meeting room based on their requirements

Description

The system consists of three types of Users (Employers)

1. Admin

a. Creates and configures meeting rooms.

2. Managers

a. Search and books a room for a meeting.

3. Members

Part of a meeting

The system stores the data in a database. The data description is as defined below.

I

1. Meeting Room

a. Unique Name

b. Seating Capacity

Ratings (based on feedbacks)

d. Amenities Available

1. Projector

Wi-Fi Connection

Conference call facility

iv. Whiteboard

v. Water dispenservi. TV vii. Coffee machine

e. Per hour cost (in credits) 

2. Users

a. Unique ID

b. Name

c. Email

d. Phone

e. Credits

f. Role (Admin/Manager/Member)

3. Booking Information (Schedules)

a Unique ID

b. Meeting Room

C Date

d. Start time

e. End time

1. Booked by (User ID)

4. Meeting

a. Unique ID

b. Title

Organized by (User ID)

d. Meeting Date

e. Start time

1. End time

Type (of Meeting)

1. Classroom Training

Online training

iii. Conference call

iv. Business

h. List of members attending the meeting Information of Meeting room booking

Additional Information

The meeting room has a per hour cost (in credits) based on the amenities.

O credits 10 credits

20 credits

5 Credits

10 Credits

Seating capacity c-5 Seating capacity > 5 10

Seating capacity 10

Projector

Wi-Fi Connection

Conference call t all facility

Whiteboard

Water dispenser

TV

Coffee machine

15 Credits

5 Credits 5 Credits

10 Credits

10 Credits

The per hour cost is the sum of credits based on the amenitiesUsers of type "Managers" have 2000 credits points, when booking the room, they will have

to pay the per hour cost from these credits.

The manager credits are renewed back to 2000 points on every Monday morning.

Mandatory Amenities required based on meeting typeClassroom Training

Online training

Conference call

Business

Whiteboard and Projector

Wi-Fi and Projector

Conference call facility

Projector

Screens & Use-cases

Home Page

This is the home page.

The screen should display:

1. Information about the application 2. List of meeting rooms

Each item should display the Name, Seating capacity. Total number of

meetings conducted, Ratings

1. Link to Import users. Link to Login.

Import users

This screen should provide a link/button when clicked request should go to the server and it should load the data from an internal file in the server (c:\somefile\data.xml) The XML file will be an array of users. Each user object will have the data points.

1. Name

I

2. Email

3. Phone

4. Role (Admin/Manager/Member)

Business Rules1. All fields are mandatory 2. Email and Phone should be in the correct format, use regular expressions to

validate the same.

3. If the role is "Manager", credits should be inserted as 2000, other users will

have 0 credits.

4. Generate a unique ID

Login

The screen allows a user to login. Fields to capture

1. User ID

2. Email

After logging in, the user is delegated to the

• Admin Page for admins

• Manager Page for managers

⚫ Member page for members

Business Rules

1. All fields are mandatory 2. UserID and Email should be valid

Admin

The screen allows admins to create and manage meeting rooms

The page displays

1. Admin information, Name, Email, last logged-in

etc

2. A list of meeting rooms. The list item should be selectable and on selecting

should navigate to the Edit Room page. 3. A link to Create Room.

Create Room

The screen allows to create a meeting room. Fields to capture are

1. Name

I

2.

Seating Capacity

3. Amenities Available (Checkboxes to select)

a. Projector

b. Wi-Fi Connection c. Conference call facilityd. Whiteboard

e. Water dispenser

I

立

f. TV g. Coffee machine

4. Save and Cancel buttonsBusiness Rules

1. Name and Seating capacity is mandatory 2. Name should be unique.

3. At least 2 amenities should be added.

4. The per hours' charges should be calculated.

5. Unique ID should be generated.

Edit Room

The screen allows to edit a meeting room. Appropriate UI should be provided.

• Same Business rules for Create Room apply

Manager Page

The screen allows a manager to view meetings and book a meeting room.

The page displays.

1. Manager information, Name, Email, last logged-in etc. 2. List of scheduled meetings

a. List items should display the Meeting Name, Meeting Room, Start Date and

Time and duration. 3. Link to Organize Meeting

Organize Meeting

I

The screen allows a manager to organize a meeting and book a meeting room. Fields to capture:

1.

Title

2. Meeting Date3. Start time

4. Duration

5. Meeting type

6. AUI to search for and add members

7. A UI to select a meeting room.

8. Save and Cancel option.
Business Rules

1. All fields are mandatory

2. Meeting date and time should be a later date time,

3. Meeting room should be available on the start date, time and the duration of the meeting.

4. Seating capacity of the meeting room should not be less than the total participants of the meeting.

5. The project manager should have enough credits to books the meeting. The credits should be deducted if the meeting room is booked. 6. Validate amenities based on meeting type.

7. Generate a Unique ID

Update Credits

A background task that runs on Monday morning 6 AM that resets all credits points of project

managers to 2000.

Member

The screen is displayed when a member logs in. It should display the meetings schedules for the

member.Organize Meeting

Meeting date and time should be a later date time,

Meeting room should be available on the start date, time and the duration of the meeting. Seating capacity of the meeting room should not be less than the total participants of the

meeting.

The project manager should have enough credits to books the meeting. The credits should be deducted if the meeting room is booked.

Create Room

Name and Seating capacity is mandatory.

Name should be unique.

B At least 2 amenities should be added.

The per hours' charges should be calculated.

Unique ID should be generated.Application Design

1. Use an RDBMS server to store all business data. Data should be normalized. Decide the database design (tables and columns) based on the application and business requirement.

2. The application should be object oriented and easily extensible to add new features

like new roles and other use cases.

3. The web application should be based on MVC design pattern.

4. Business rules should be implemented in a separate layer.

5. Implement a proper data-access layer.

6. Use proper exception handling.

7. Provide a logout option.

8. Any one page should be designed as responsive.

Functional Requirement

1. Security

a. Unauthorized users should not have to access the system.

2. Logging

a. All unhandled exceptions should be logged.

3. Transactions